(lp1
S'X () X, the twenty-fourth letter of the English alphabet, has three sounds; a compound nonvocal sound (that of ks), as in wax; a compound vocal sound (that of gz), as in example; and, at the beginning of a word, a simple vocal sound (that of z), as in xanthic. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 217, 270, 271.'
p2
aS'Xanthamide (n.) An amido derivative of xanthic acid obtained as a white crystalline substance, C2H5O.CS.NH2; -- called also xanthogen amide.'
p3
aS'Xanthate (n.) A salt of xanthic; a xanthogenate.'
p4
aS'Xanthelasma (n.) See Xanthoma.'
p5
aS'Xanthian (a.) Of or pertaining to Xanthus, an ancient town on Asia Minor; -- applied especially to certain marbles found near that place, and now in the British Museum.'
p6
aS'Xanthic (a.) Tending toward a yellow color, or to one of those colors, green being excepted, in which yellow is a constituent, as scarlet, orange, etc.'
p7
aS'Xanthic (a.) Possessing, imparting, or producing a yellow color; as, xanthic acid.'
p8
aS'Xanthic (a.) Of or pertaining to xanthic acid, or its compounds; xanthogenic.'
p9
aS'Xanthic (a.) Of or pertaining to xanthin.'
p10
aS'Xanthide (n.) A compound or derivative of xanthogen.'
p11
aS'Xanthidia (pl. ) of Xanthidium'
p12
aS'Xanthidium (n.) A genus of minute unicellular algae of the desmids. These algae have a rounded shape and are armed with glochidiate or branched aculei. Several species occur in ditches, and others are found fossil in flint or hornstone.'
p13
aS'Xanthin (n.) A crystalline nitrogenous body closely related to both uric acid and hypoxanthin, present in muscle tissue, and occasionally found in the urine and in some urinary calculi. It is also present in guano. So called from the yellow color of certain of its salts (nitrates).'
p14
aS'Xanthin (n.) A yellow insoluble coloring matter extracted from yellow flowers; specifically, the coloring matter of madder.'
p15
aS'Xanthin (n.) One of the gaseous or volatile decomposition products of the xanthates, and probably identical with carbon disulphide.'
p16
aS'Xanthinine (n.) A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid, produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellow salts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence like quinine.'
p17
aS'Xanthium (n.) A genus of composite plants in which the scales of the involucre are united so as to form a kind of bur; cocklebur; clotbur.'
p18
aS'Xantho- () A combining form from Gr. xanqo`s yellow; as in xanthocobaltic salts. Used also adjectively in chemistry.'
p19
aS'Xanthocarpous (a.) Having yellow fruit.'
p20
aS'Xanthochroi (n. pl.) A division of the Caucasian races, comprising the lighter-colored members.'
p21
aS'Xanthochroic (a.) Having a yellowish or fair complexion; of or pertaining to the Xanthochroi.'
p22
aS'Xanthodontous (a.) Having yellow teeth.'
p23
aS'Xanthogen (n.) The hypothetical radical supposed to be characteristic of xanthic acid.'
p24
aS'Xanthogen (n.) Persulphocyanogen.'
p25
aS'Xanthogenate (n.) A salt of xanthic acid.'
p26
aS'Xanthogenic (a.) Producing a yellow color or compound; xanthic. See Xanthic acid, under Xanthic.'
p27
aS'Xanthoma (n.) A skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also xanthelasma.'
p28
aS'Xanthophane (n.) The yellow pigment present in the inner segments of the retina in animals. See Chromophane.'
p29
aS'Xanthophyll (n.) A yellow coloring matter found in yellow autumn leaves, and also produced artificially from chlorophyll; -- formerly called also phylloxanthin.'
p30
aS'Xanthopous (a.) Having a yellow stipe, or stem.'
p31
aS'Xanthoproteic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, xanthoprotein; showing the characters of xanthoprotein; as, xanthoproteic acid; the xanthoproteic reaction for albumin.'
p32
aS'Xanthoprotein (n.) A yellow acid substance formed by the action of hot nitric acid on albuminous or proteid matter. It is changed to a deep orange-yellow color by the addition of ammonia.'
p33
aS'Xanthopuccine (n.) One of three alkaloids found in the root of the yellow puccoon (Hydrastis Canadensis). It is a yellow crystalline substance, and resembles berberine.'
p34
aS'Xanthorhamnin (n.) A glucoside extracted from Persian berries as a yellow crystalline powder, used as a dyestuff.'
p35
aS'Xanthorhiza (n.) A genus of shrubby ranunculaceous plants of North America, including only the species Xanthorhiza apiifolia, which has roots of a deep yellow color; yellowroot. The bark is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic.'
p36
aS'Xanthorhoea (n.) A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having a thick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves. See Grass tree.'
p37
aS'Xanthose (n.) An orange-yellow substance found in pigment spots of certain crabs.'
p38
aS'Xanthosis (n.) The yellow discoloration often observed in cancerous tumors.'
p39
aS'Xanthospermous (a.) Having yellow seeds.'
p40
aS'Xanthous (a.) Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those races of man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair.'
p41
aS'Xanthoxylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon of the terpene series extracted from the seeds of a Japanese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum pipertium) as an aromatic oil.'
p42
aS'Xanthoxylum (n.) A genus of prickly shrubs or small trees, the bark and rots of which are of a deep yellow color; prickly ash.'
p43
aS'Xebec (n.) A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly armed and used by corsairs.'
p44
aS'Xeme (n.) An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii).'
p45
aS'Xenelasia (n.) A Spartan institution which prohibited strangers from residing in Sparta without permission, its object probably being to preserve the national simplicity of manners.'
p46
aS'Xenia (pl. ) of Xenium'
p47
aS'Xenium (n.) A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign ambassador.'
p48
aS'Xenodochium (n.) A house for the reception of strangers.'
p49
aS'Xenodochium (n.) In the Middle Ages, a room in a monastery for the reception and entertainment of strangers and pilgrims, and for the relief of paupers. [Called also Xenodocheion.]'
p50
aS'Xenodochy (n.) Reception of strangers; hospitality.'
p51
aS'Xenogamy (n.) Cross fertilization.'
p52
aS'Xenogenesis (n.) Same as Heterogenesis.'
p53
aS'Xenogenesis (n.) The fancied production of an organism of one kind by an organism of another.'
p54
aS'Xenogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to xenogenesis; as, the xenogenetic origin of microzymes.'
p55
aS'Xenomania (n.) A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, foreign customs, institutions, manners, fashions, etc.'
p56
aS'Xenomi (n. pl.) A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis) is the type.'
p57
aS'Xenopterygii (n. pl.) A suborder of fishes including Gobiesox and allied genera. These fishes have soft-rayed fins, and a ventral sucker supported in front by the pectoral fins. They are destitute of scales.'
p58
aS'Xenotime (n.) A native phosphate of yttrium occurring in yellowish-brown tetragonal crystals.'
p59
aS'Xenurine (n.) A cabassou.'
p60
aS'Xenyl (n.) The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds.'
p61
aS'Xenylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, designating, certain amido compounds obtained by reducing certain nitro derivatives of diphenyl.'
p62
aS'Xeraphim (n.) An old money of account in Bombay, equal to three fifths of a rupee.'
p63
aS'Xeres (n.) Sherry. See Sherry.'
p64
aS'Xerif (n.) A shereef.'
p65
aS'Xeriff (n.) A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat.'
p66
aS'Xeroderma (n.) Ichthyosis.'
p67
aS'Xeroderma (n.) A skin disease characterized by the presence of numerous small pigmented spots resembling freckles, with which are subsequently mingled spots of atrophied skin.'
p68
aS'Xeronate (n.) A salt of xeronic acid.'
p69
aS'Xeronic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4, related to fumaric acid, and obtained from citraconic acid as an oily substance having a bittersweet taste; -- so called from its tendency to form its anhydride.'
p70
aS'Xerophagy (n.) Among the primitive Christians, the living on a diet of dry food in Lent and on other fasts.'
p71
aS'Xerophilous (a.) Drought-loving; able withstand the absence or lack of moisture.'
p72
aS'Xerophthalmia (n.) An abnormal dryness of the eyeball produced usually by long-continued inflammation and subsequent atrophy of the conjunctiva.'
p73
aS'Xerophthalmy (n.) Xerophthalmia.'
p74
aS'Xiphias (n.) A genus of fishes comprising the common swordfish.'
p75
aS'Xiphias (n.) The constellation Dorado.'
p76
aS'Xiphias (n.) A comet shaped like a sword'
p77
aS'Xiphidium (n.) A genus of plants of the order Haemodraceae, having two-ranked, sword-shaped leaves.'
p78
aS'Xiphioid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cetacean of the genus Xiphius or family Xiphiidae.'
p79
aS'Xiphiplastra (pl. ) of Xiphiplastron'
p80
aS'Xiphiplastron (n.) The posterior, or fourth, lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also xiphisternum.'
p81
aS'Xiphisterna (pl. ) of Xiphisternum'
p82
aS'Xiphisternum (n.) The posterior segment, or extremity, of the sternum; -- sometimes called metasternum, ensiform cartilage, ensiform process, or xiphoid process.'
p83
aS'Xiphisternum (n.) The xiphiplastron.'
p84
aS'Xiphius (n.) A genus of cetaceans having a long, pointed, bony beak, usually two tusklike teeth in the lower jaw, but no teeth in the upper jaw.'
p85
aS'Xiphodon (n.) An extinct genus of artiodactylous mammals found in the European Tertiary formations. It had slender legs, didactylous feet, and small canine teeth.'
p86
aS'Xiphoid (a.) Like a sword; ensiform.'
p87
aS'Xiphoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the xiphoid process; xiphoidian.'
p88
aS'Xiphoidian (a.) Xiphoid.'
p89
aS'Xiphophyllous (a.) Having sword-shaped leaves.'
p90
aS'Xiphosura (n. pl.) See Xiphura.'
p91
aS'Xiphura (n. pl.) Same as Limuloidea. Called also Xiphosura.'
p92
aS'Xylamide (n.) An acid amide derivative of xylic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.'
p93
aS'Xylanthrax (n.) Wood coal, or charcoal; -- so called in distinction from mineral coal.'
p94
aS'Xylate (n.) A salt of xylic acid.'
p95
aS'Xylem (n.) That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloem.'
p96
aS'Xylene (n.) Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids, C6H4.(CH3)2, being dimethyl benzenes, and are called respectively orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. Called also xylol.'
p97
aS'Xylenol (n.) Any one of six metameric phenol derivatives of xylene, obtained as crystalline substances, (CH3)2.C6H3.OH.'
p98
aS'Xyletic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related to mesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol.'
p99
aS'Xylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene.'
p100
aS'Xylidic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, either one of two distinct acids which are derived from xylic acid and related compounds, and are metameric with uvitic acid.'
p101
aS'Xylidine (n.) Any one of six metameric hydrocarbons, (CH3)2.C6H3.NH2, resembling aniline, and related to xylene. They are liquids, or easily fusible crystalline substances, of which three are derived from metaxylene, two from orthoxylene, and one from paraxylene. They are called the amido xylenes.'
p102
aS'Xylindein (n.) A green or blue pigment produced by Peziza in certain kinds of decayed wood, as the beech, oak, birch, etc., and extracted as an amorphous powder resembling indigo.'
p103
aS'Xylite (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits.'
p104
aS'Xylitone (n.) A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.'
p105
aS'Xylo- () A combining form from Gr. xy`lon wood; as in xylogen, xylograph.'
p106
aS'Xylobalsamum (n.) The dried twigs of a Syrian tree (Balsamodendron Gileadense).'
p107
aS'Xylocarpous (a.) Bearing fruit which becomes hard or woody.'
p108
aS'Xylocopa (n.) A genus of hymenopterous insects including the carpenter. See Carpenter bee, under Carpenter.'
p109
aS'Xylogen (n.) Nascent wood; wood cells in a forming state.'
p110
aS'Xylogen (n.) Lignin.'
p111
aS'Xylograph (n.) An engraving on wood, or the impression from such an engraving; a print by xylography.'
p112
aS'Xylographer (n.) One who practices xylography.'
p113
aS'Xylographic (a.) Alt. of Xylographical'
p114
aS'Xylographical (a.) Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving.'
p115
aS'Xylography (n.) The art of engraving on wood.'
p116
aS'Xylography (n.) The art of making prints from the natural grain of wood.'
p117
aS'Xylography (n.) A method pf printing in colors upon wood for purposes of house decoration.'
p118
aS'Xyloid (a.) Resembling wood; having the nature of wood.'
p119
aS'Xyloidin (n.) A substance resembling pyroxylin, obtained by the action of nitric acid on starch; -- called also nitramidin.'
p120
aS'Xylol (n.) Same as Xylene.'
p121
aS'Xylonite (n.) See Zylonite.'
p122
aS'Xylophaga (n.) A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood. They are allied to Pholas.'
p123
aS'Xylophagan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles whose larvae bore or live in wood.'
p124
aS'Xylophagan (n.) Any species of Xylophaga.'
p125
aS'Xylophagan (n.) Any one of the Xylophagides.'
p126
aS'Xylophagides (n. pl.) A tribe or family of dipterous flies whose larvae live in decayed wood. Some of the tropical species are very large.'
p127
aS'Xylophagous (a.) Eating, boring in, or destroying, wood; -- said especially of certain insect larvae, crustaceans, and mollusks.'
p128
aS'Xylophagous (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Xylophaga.'
p129
aS'Xylophilan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvae live on decayed wood.'
p130
aS'Xylophilous (a.) Of or pertaining to the xylophilans.'
p131
aS'Xylophone (n.) An instrument common among the Russians, Poles, and Tartars, consisting of a series of strips of wood or glass graduated in length to the musical scale, resting on belts of straw, and struck with two small hammers. Called in Germany strohfiedel, or straw fiddle.'
p132
aS'Xylophone (n.) An instrument to determine the vibrative properties of different kinds of wood.'
p133
aS'Xyloplastic (a.) Formed of wood pulp by molds; relating to casts made of wood pulp in molds.'
p134
aS'Xylopyrography (n.) The art or practice of burning pictures on wood with a hot iron; -- called also poker painting. See Poker picture, under Poker.'
p135
aS'Xyloquinone (n.) Any one of a group of quinone compounds obtained respectively by the oxidation of certain xylidine compounds. In general they are yellow crystalline substances.'
p136
aS'Xylorcin (n.) A derivative of xylene obtained as a white crystalline substance which on exposure in the air becomes red; -- called also betaorcin.'
p137
aS'Xylostein (n.) A glucoside found in the poisonous berries of a species of honeysuckle (Lonicera xylosteum), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance.'
p138
aS'Xylotile (n.) Same as Parkesine.'
p139
aS'Xylotrya (n.) A genus of marine bivalves closely allied to Teredo, and equally destructive to timber. One species (Xylotrya fimbriata) is very common on the Atlantic coast of the United States.'
p140
aS'Xylyl (n.) Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes.'
p141
aS'Xylylene (n.) Any one of three metameric radicals, CH2.C6H4.CH2, derived respectively from the three xylenes. Often used adjectively; as, xylylene alcohol.'
p142
aS'Xyridaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Xyrideae) of endogenous plants, of which Xyris is the type.'
p143
aS'Xyris (n.) A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States.'
p144
aS'Xyst (n.) Alt. of Xystus'
p145
aS'Xystus (n.) A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather.'
p146
aS'Xystarch (n.) An office/ having the superintendence of the xyst.'
p147
aS'Xyster (n.) An instrument for scraping bones.'
p148
a.